.\" roar_simple_play.3:

.TH "roar_simple_new_stream" "3" "July 2008" "RoarAudio" "System Manager's Manual: RoarAuido"

.SH NAME
roar_simple_new_stream, roar_simple_new_stream_obj \- Create a new stream via RoarAudio

.SH SYNOPSIS

#include <roaraudio.h>

int roar_simple_new_stream(struct roar_connection * con, int rate, int channels, int bits, int codec, int dir);

int roar_simple_new_stream_obj(struct roar_connection * con, struct roar_stream * s, int rate, int channels, int bits, int
codec, int dir);

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Opens a new stream to the sound server as a independet file handle (not an execed one). This is useful if you still want
some meta data or the volume to be updated after the stream is open.


.SH "PARAMETERS"
.TP
\fBcon\fR
The "parent" connection. This is a valid open controll connection as opend via \fBroar_simple_connect\fR(3).

.TP
\fBs\fR
The stream object to be updated to corresponde to the new stream. This is useful if use want to update some meta data
after the stream has be opened as you can use all controll commands on this object.

.TP
\fBrate, channels, bits, codec\fR
For an explanation on these parameters see \fBroar_simple_play\fR(3).

.TP
\fBdir\fR
For an explanation on this parameter see \fBroar_simple_stream\fR(3).

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success these calls return a new filehandle.  On error, \-1 is returned.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
An example of the use of \fBroar_simple_new_stream_obj()\fR can be found on \fBroarvorbis\fR(1) code.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBroar_simple_connect\fR(3),
\fBroar_simple_play\fR(3),
\fBroar_simple_close\fR(3),
\fBlibroar\fR(7),
\fBRoarAudio\fR(7).

.\" ll
