.\" roar_simple_play.3:

.TH "roar_simple_play" "3" "July 2008" "RoarAudio" "System Manager's Manual: RoarAuido"

.SH NAME
roar_simple_play, roar_simple_monitor, roar_simple_record, roar_simple_filter \- Simple playback, monetoring, recording or filtering via RoarAudio

.SH SYNOPSIS

#include <roaraudio.h>

int roar_simple_play(int rate, int channels, int bits, int codec, char * server, char * name);

int roar_simple_monitor(int rate, int channels, int bits, int codec, char * server, char * name);

int roar_simple_record(int rate, int channels, int bits, int codec, char * server, char * name);

int roar_simple_filter(int rate, int channels, int bits, int codec, char * server, char * name);

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Open a connection to the \fBroard\fR(1) and creates a new stream for playback, monetoring, recording or filtering.
After you are done you need to close the connection via \fBroar_simple_close\fR(3).
In case you just don't do anything with the stream the server will kick your connection, or, in case of playback
warns the user avout underruns.

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.TP
\fBrate\fR
The sample rate of the stream.

.TP
\fBchannels\fR
The nummber of channels in the stream.

.TP
\fBbits\fR
The number of bits per sample of the stream.
Commen values are 8 and 16.

.TP
\fBcodec\fR
The Codec of the data you stream to the server.
This has nothing to do with codec of the file you are playing back or encoding.
Default (\fBROAR_CODEC_DEFAULT\fR) is \fBROAR_CODEC_PCM_S_BE\fR for signed PCM in big endian.

.TP
\fBserver\fR
The name of the server. A value of \fBNULL\fR (common case) is used to try default locations.

.TP
\fBname\fR
The name of the process opening this stream to be listend in the servers meta data.
Should normaly be the name of the player without any path or filename being played.
If \fBNULL\fR an internal default is used.

.SH "NOTES ON FILTER STREAMS"
Filtering streams should not expected to work with diffrent audio data than the server works with.
You should get the values via \fBroar_server_oinfo\fR(3) before opening the stream.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success these calls return a filehandle for the stream.  On error, \-1 is returned.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
Examples of these calls are the tools \fBroarcat\fR(1), \fBroarmon\fR(1), \fBroarrec\fR(1) and \fBroarfilt\fR(1).
Just look at there code. They aren't that complex.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBroarcat\fR(1), \fBroarmon\fR(1), \fBroarrec\fR(1), \fBroarfilt\fR(1),
\fBroar_server_oinfo\fR(3),
\fBroar_simple_close\fR(3),
\fBlibroar\fR(7),
\fBRoarAudio\fR(7).

.\" ll
