.\" roar_simple_play.3:

.TH "roar_socket_listen" "3" "July 2008" "RoarAudio" "System Manager's Manual: RoarAuido"

.SH NAME
roar_socket_listen \- Opens a new listen socket

.SH SYNOPSIS

#include <roaraudio.h>

int roar_socket_listen(int type, char * host, int port);

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Opens a new listening socket for network clients to connect to.
You may accept new connections via \fBaccept\fR(2).

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.TP
\fBtype\fR
The type of the Socket. See the list below.

.TP
\fBhost\fR
The host or path name to listen on.
This depends on the type argument.
For TCP/IP to listen on any interface use a value of "0.0.0.0".

.TP
\fBport\fR
The port number to listen on.
This may be ignored by types not supporting port numbers.

.SH "SOCKET TYPES"
.TP
\fBROAR_SOCKET_TYPE_UNKNOWN\fR
The type will be auto detected. Don't use this if you know the type. Only use this
to support user given addresses and enable auto detection.

.TP
\fBROAR_SOCKET_TYPE_TCP\fR
Use a TCP/IP connection. This is standard mode for networking.
\fBhost\fR is the hostname or IP to listen on and \fBport\fR is the port number to use.

.TP
\fBROAR_SOCKET_TYPE_INET\fR
Same as above but deprecated. Use \fBROAR_SOCKET_TYPE_TCP\fR.

.TP
\fBROAR_SOCKET_TYPE_UNIX\fR
UNIX Domain Socket. This should be default for local connections.
\fBhost\fR is the filename of the socket.

.TP
\fBROAR_SOCKET_TYPE_DECNET\fR
DECnet socket.

.TP
\fBROAR_SOCKET_TYPE_FORK\fR
This is to fork a roard to communicate with. Can't be use to listen on, just to connect to.
\fBhost\fR and \fBport\fR is ignored at the moment.

.TP
\fBROAR_SOCKET_TYPE_FILE\fR
This is used to open a plain file. Can't be use to listen on, just to connect to.
\fBhost\fR is the filename to connect to.


.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success these calls return filehandle.  On error, -1 is returned.

.SH "BUGS"
Listening on UDP sockets is not supported at the moment.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
FIXME

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBaccept\fR(2),
\fBlibroar\fR(7),
\fBRoarAudio\fR(7).

.\" ll
