.\" RoarAudio
.TH "libroar" "7" "July 2008" "RoarAudio" "System Manager's Manual: RoarAuido"

.SH NAME
libroar \- RoarAudio sound library

.SH SYNOPSIS

 #include <roaraudio.h>

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBlibroar\fR is the central library used to comunicate with the roard.
It suppots all commands from simple commands to play some audio up to complex commands
to controll the server and do nice things over the network.


.SH "EXAMPLES"
The basic tools shiped with RoarAudio are designed to also work as examples for the lib.
You may start by looking at \fBroarcat\fR(1)s source code as an example on how to simply play back
some audio. A more complex example is \fBroarvorbis\fR(1) which also includes meta data updates.

.SH "TUTORIALS"
Tutorials can be found in \fBroartut\fR(7).

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The following variables are used in libroar itself so they are common to all clients
using libroar.

.TP
\fBHOME\fR
The users home directory.

.TP
\fBROAR_SERVER\fR
The address of the listening server. This may be in form of host:port for TCP/IP connections
and /path/to/sock for UNIX Domain Sockets. If a value of '+fork' is given a roard is forked and used.
This roard will not listen on any sockets so it is used exclusiv by this client. See \fBroard\fR(1) for
more information.

.TP
\fBROAR_PROXY\fR
Set the type of the proxy being used to connect to the server.
The only valid value at the moment is 'socks4a'. Note that this is incompatible
with SOCKS4 like OpenSSH supports it.

.TP
\fBsocks_proxy\fR
The SOCKS4/4a/5 proxy to use in form host:port.


.SH "BUGS"
A lot...

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBroar-config\fR(1),
\fBroartypes\fR(1),
\fBroartut\fR(7),
\fBroard\fR(1),
\fBRoarAudio\fR(7).

.SH "HISTORY"
Project started in mid of 2008.

.\"ll
