.\" RoarAudio
.TH "roartips" "7" "August 2008" "RoarAudio" "System Manager's Manual: RoarAuido"

.SH NAME
roartips \- Tips for RoarAudio users

.SH SYNOPSIS

 roard [OPTIONS...] ...

 roarclient [OPTIONS...] ...

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manpage lists some tips for intermedia to advanced users of RoarAudio.

.SH "CONTROLLING ROARD"
RoarAudio supports a lot of things you can change on the fly.
This includes the volume for each stream as you may allready noticed:
If you cange the volume within a player only this stream is changed, other streams
keep there loudness. There a a lot other things that can be changed on the fly.
To do this there is a tool called \fBroarctl\fR(1). You may want to play around a bit
with it. A good start are to try those two commands:
 roarctl --help
 roarctl allinfo

The later one will show you all information current available of the server it self,
the clients and the streams. This may include a lot of information.

.SH "SERVER ADDRESS"
There a serverel types of server addresses based on the protocol used to communicate.
This lists the corrently implemented types in order of importance:

.TP
\fB/path/to/sock\fR
Path to UNIX Domain Socket.
Example:
 /tmp/roar

.TP
\fBhost\fR, \fBhost:port\fR
This is used for connections over TCP/IP.
If port is omitted the default port is used.
Examples:
 audio.homeserver.local
 localhost:7564

.TP
\fBnode::\fR, \fBnode::object\fR, \fB::object\fR, \fB::\fR
This is the way to specify a DECnet connection to node \fBnode\fR's
object \fBobject\fR. Both may be omitted to use defaults. Default
node name is local hosts node name.
Examples:
 mynode::
 ::roar
 yournode::yourroard

.TP
\fB+fork\fR
This starts a new roard for every \fBroar_connect\fR(3).
This is used internaly by the lib to emulate EsounD's
fallback.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP
\fBROAR_SERVER\fR
This varibale contains the default server address. If some client does not
allow a user to set a server address or to set a default value this one
come into play. Examples:
 ROAR_SERVER=some.host
 ROAR_SERVER=another.host:port
 ROAR_SERVER=node::
 ROAR_SERVER=/tmp/roar

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBroarcat\fR(1),
\fBroarctl\fR(1),
\fBroarfilt\fR(1),
\fBroarfish\fR(1),
\fBroarmon\fR(1),
\fBroarvorbis\fR(1),
\fBroard\fR(1),
\fBlibroar\fR(7).

.\"ll
