.\" RoarAudio
.TH "roarvio" "7" "March 2009" "RoarAudio" "System Manager's Manual: RoarAuido"

.SH NAME
libroar \- RoarAudio sound library

roarvio \- RoarAudio virtual IO layer

.SH SYNOPSIS

 #include <roaraudio.h>

 struct roar_vio_calls;

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The RoarAudio VIO interface is RoarAudio's IO abstraction layer. It provides basic
IO functions such as read and write independing on the underlaying IO. For Example
can you open a plain or a gziped file via the VIO layer. After a successful open
both objects behave the same, libroar takes care about the compression in the gzip
case.

.\".SH "EXAMPLES"

.SH "TUTORIALS"
Tutorials can be found in \fBroartutvio\fR(7).

.SH "IMPORTANT FUNCTIONS"
There are several important functions. This is a small list of the most important ones.

.TP
\fBOpening\fR
\fBroar_vio_open_file\fR(3), \fBroar_vio_open_fh\fR(3), \fBroar_vio_open_stdio\fR(3),
\fBroar_vio_open_dstr\fR(3), \fBroar_vio_open_proto\fR(3).

However there is a lot function that are important for opening files the most important
function is \fBroar_vio_open_dstr\fR(3). It opens a stream based on URLs that can point
to local files or files on remotge machines. It also can handle compression and encryption.

.TP
\fBClosing\fR
\fBroar_vio_close\fR(3)

.TP
\fBReading and writing\fR
\fBroar_vio_read\fR(3), \fBroar_vio_write\fR(3)

.TP
\fBSeeking and positioning\fR
\fBroar_vio_lseek\fR(3)

.TP
\fBNon-Blocking and Asyncron IO\fR
\fBroar_vio_nonblock\fR(3), \fBroar_vio_sync\fR(3)

.SH "BUGS"
A lot...

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBroar-config\fR(1),
\fBroartypes\fR(1),
\fBroartutvio\fR(7),
\fBRoarAudio\fR(7).

.\"ll
