.\" roard.1:

.TH "roarctl" "1" "July 2008" "RoarAudio" "System Manager's Manual: roard"

.SH NAME

roarctl \- RoarAudio sound server controll tool

.SH SYNOPSIS

roarcat [OPTIONS]... COMMAND [OPTS] [COMMAND [OPTS] [COMMAND [OPTS] [...]]]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This tool controlls the RoarAudio's sound server.
This is done by sending commands to the server. See \fBCOMMANDS\fR for a list.

.SH "GENERAL OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB--help\fR
Print some help text.

.TP
\fB-v\fR
Be verbose. May be used multiple times.

.SH "NETWORK OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB--server SERVER\fR
The server to connect to

.SH "BASIC COMMANDS"
.TP
\fBhelp\fR
Same as \fB--help\fR.

.TP
\fBstandby\fR, \fBoff\fR, \fBresume\fR, \fBon\fR
Brings the server into standby mode or back into achtive (operating mode).

.TP
\fBstandbymode\fR
Tells if the server is in standby mode or not.

.TP
\fBexit\fR
Quits the server.

.TP
\fBterminate\fR
Terminates the server as soon as all clients disconnected and all streams reaches EOF.


.SH "STREAM COMMANDS"
.TP
\fBvolume STREAMID CHANNELS VOL0 VOL1 VOL2...\fR
Sets the mixing level for a stream with id \fISTREAMID\fR.

\fICHANNELS\fR is the nummber of channels to set volume.
This should be the number of channels of the stream or a symbolic name.
Currently the symbolic names \fBmono\fR and \fBstereo\fR are allowed.
If you use \fBmono\fR all channels will get the level you give as
\fIVOL0\fR. If you use \fBstereo\fR it will try to set the mixing levels
as you are used from stereo setups even if the setup is not in stereo.

The parameters \fIVOL0\fR ... \fIVOLn\fR and the number of them depends
on what you gave as \fICHANNELS\fR. You have to give exactly \fICHANNELS\fR
parameters.

If you give a numerical (not symbolic) value for \fICHANNELS\fR and
the stream does have a diffrent number of channels the behavor is undefined.
In the current implementation only the first \fICHANNELS\fR channels will be updated.
This behavor may change in the future.

.TP
\fBkick TYPE ID\fR
Kicks an object of \fITYPE\fR with id \fIID\fR.
Possible types are: \fBclient stream sample source\fR

You can get the \fIID\fR via \fBlist*\fR (see bellow).

.TP
\fBflag ID FLAGS\fR, \fBunflag ID FLAGS\fR
Sets or removes flags from a stream. ID is the stream id.
FLAGS is a comma seperated list of flags.

It is not possible to set all kinds of flags at runtime.

.SH "META DATA COMMANDS"
.TP
\fBmetasave ID FILE\fR
Saves the meta data of stream ID to file FILE.
The Format is one KEY=Value pair per line.
The same format is used by Xiph's tools.

.TP
\fBmetaload ID FILE\fR
Load meta data from file FILE into stream ID. The format is the same
as for \fBmetasave\fR.

.SH "LISTING COMMANDS"
.TP
\fBserveroinfo\fR
Gets Informations about server output.

.TP
\fBlistclients\fR
Gets Informations about clients.

.TP
\fBliststreams\fR
Gets Informations about streams.

.TP
\fBallinfo\fR
Same as "\fBserveroinfo\fR \fBlistclients\fR \fBliststreams\fR".

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
Bellow only the basic environment varibales are listend.
For a complete list see \fBlibroar\fR(7).

.TP
\fBHOME\fR
The users home directory.

.TP
\fBROAR_SERVER\fR
The address of the listening server. This may be in form of host:port for TCP/IP connections
and /path/to/sock for UNIX Domain Sockets.
This is the same as the \fB--server\fR option.

.SH "BUGS"
1) Make the meta data commands api-fixed and list them here.

2) more often check if the user gave us enough arguments.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBroarvorbis\fR(1),
\fBroarfish\fR(1),
\fBroarbaseclients\fR(1),
\fBroartestclients\fR(1),
\fBlibroar\fR(7),
\fBRoarAudio\fR(7).

.SH "HISTORY"

For history information see \fBRoarAudio\fR(7).

.\" ll
