.\" roarclientpass.1:

.TH "roarclientpass" "1" "July 2010" "RoarAudio" "System User's Manual: roarclientpass"

.SH NAME

roarclientpass \- Passing clients to and creating new listen sockets on RoarAudio sound server

.SH SYNOPSIS

roarclientpass [OPTIONS]...

.SH DESCRIPTION

This program let you pass new clients to a RoarAudio sound server as as a proxy and
let you add new listen sockets to a running server.

.SH "OPTIONS"

.TP
\fB--server    SERVER\fR
Set server hostname.

.TP
\fB--stdin\fR
Client is on stdin.

.TP
\fB--stdout\fR
Client is on stdout.

.TP
\fB--stdio\fR
Same as \-\-stdin \-\-stdout.

This option may for example be used in case of being runed from a inetd.

.TP
\fB--stderr\fR
Client is on stderr.

Beside to make stderr known as client fh it will disable error output on stderr.
This \fBmust\fR be used in case this program is used from inetd or simular tools.

.TP
\fB--client-fh FH\fR
Client is on FH.

This is basicly the same as \-\-client-fh on roard(1).

.TP
\fB--proto PROTO\fR
Set the protocol used by the client.

Defaults to RoarAudio.

.TP
\fB--byteorder BO\fR
Sets the byteorder used by the client.

Defaults to network byte order.

.TP
\fB--listen\fR
Client is a listen connection.

This is not the same as \-\-mode listen.

.TP
\fB--mode MODE\fR
Set mode of operation: none, listen or connect

Defaults to none.

.TP
\fB--bind BIND\fR
Set host/node/path for mode listen and connect.

.TP
\fB--port PORT\fR
Set port for mode listen and connect.

.TP
\fB--help\fR
Show this help

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBroartips\fR(7),
\fBlibroar\fR(7),
\fBRoarAudio\fR(7).

.SH "HISTORY"

For history information see \fBRoarAudio\fR(7).

.\" ll
