.\" roard.1:

.TH "roartestclients" "1" "July 2008" "RoarAudio" "System Manager's Manual: roard"

.SH NAME

roarcat2sock, roarcatad, roarsin, roarsockconnect \- RoarAudio sound server test clients

.SH SYNOPSIS

roarcat2sock [OPTIONS]...

roarcatad [OPTIONS]...

roarsin

roarsockconnect HOST PORT

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This clients are primary for test perpose but may be usefull for someone
or can be used as examples.

.TP
\fBroarcat2sock\fR
This is the same as \fBroarcat\fR(1) but uses \fBroar_simple_new_stream\fR(3)
to open the audio stream.

.TP
\fBroarcatad\fR
This is also the same as \fBroarcat\fR(1) but uses \fBroar_stream_add_data\fR(3)
to fill the server's input buffer.

.TP
\fBroarsin\fR
This is the complete version of the sinus generator from \fBroartut\fR(7).
It plays a 5 secund middle C (523.2Hz) sine.

.TP
\fBroarsockconnect\fB
This is just a test tool connecting somewhere via \fBroar_socket_connect\fR(3).
First the data of stdin is copied to the socket than the data from the socket to
stdout. It's a very simlple semi-bi-directional version of \fBnetcat\fR(1).

.SH "GENERAL OPTIONS"
\fBNOTE: This list is incomplete!\fR

.TP
\fB--help\fR
Print some help text.

.SH "AUDIO OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB--rate RATE\fR, \fB-R RATE\fR
Set server sample rate.

.TP
\fB--bits BITS\fR, \fB-B BITS\fR
Set server bits.

.TP
\fB--chans CHANNELS\fR, \fB-C CHANNELS\fR
Set server channels.

.SH "NETWORK OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB--server SERVER\fR
The server to connect to

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
Bellow only the basic environment varibales are listend.
For a complete list see \fBlibroar\fR(7).

.TP
\fBHOME\fR
The users home directory.

.TP
\fBROAR_SERVER\fR
The address of the listening server. This may be in form of host:port for TCP/IP connections
and /path/to/sock for UNIX Domain Sockets. See \fBroartips\fR(7)
for a full list.
This is the same as the \fB--server\fR option.

.SH "BUGS"
There are a lot of bugs...

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBroarctl\fR(1),
\fBroarvorbis\fR(1),
\fBroarfish\fR(1),
\fBroarbaseclients\fR(1),
\fBroartips\fR(7),
\fBlibroar\fR(7),
\fBRoarAudio\fR(7).

.SH "HISTORY"

For history information see \fBRoarAudio\fR(7).

.\" ll
