.\" roard.1:

.TH "roarfilt" "1" "July 2008" "RoarAudio" "System Manager's Manual: roarfilt"

.SH NAME

roarfilt \- RoarAudio sound server audio filter client

.SH SYNOPSIS

roarfilt [OPTIONS]...

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This filters the audio data before they are send to the soundcard.

.SH "GENERAL OPTIONS"
\fBNOTE: This list is incomplete!\fR
In addition to this list this program provides compatible
options for esdfilt. You can just replace the "esd"
in the name with "roar" or use symlinks. This options are for compatibly
only and should not used in new programs.

.TP
\fB--help\fR
Print some help text.

.SH "AUDIO OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB--rate RATE\fR, \fB-R RATE\fR
Set server sample rate.

.TP
\fB--bits BITS\fR, \fB-B BITS\fR
Set server bits.

.TP
\fB--chans CHANNELS\fR, \fB-C CHANNELS\fR
Set server channels.

.SH "NETWORK OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB--server SERVER\fR
The server to connect to.

.SH "OLD ROARFILT OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB--half\fR
Half the volume.

.TP
\fB--double\fR
Double the volume.

.TP
\fB--amp n\fR, \fB--mul n\fR
Amplify volume by n.

.TP
\fB--div n\fR
Divide volume by n.

.TP
\fB--log n\fR
Does a simple 'gamma correction'.
This is done by:
 sample = 2^(bits-1) * log(1 + (n - 1)*sample/2^(bits-1)) / log(n).

.TP
\fB--lowpass freq\fR
lowpass filter

.SH "FILTER OPTIONS"

.TP
\fB--filter name\fR
This adds a new filter of name \fIname\fR.

.TP
\fB--ffreq freq\fR
This sets a frequency for the filter.

.TP
\fB--fmul mult\fR
This sets a multiplier for the filter.

.TP
\fB--fdiv div\fR
This sets a divider for the filter.

.TP
\fB--fn N\fR
This sets the filter's N value.

.TP
\fB--flimit limit\fR
This sets the filter's limit value.

.TP
\fB--fmode mode\fR
set filter mode parameter
This sets the filter mode. Symbolic values are currently not supported.

.TP
\fB--fq Q\fR
This sets the filter quality.


.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
Bellow only the basic environment varibales are listend.
For a complete list see \fBlibroar\fR(7).

.TP
\fBHOME\fR
The users home directory.

.TP
\fBROAR_SERVER\fR
The address of the listening server. This may be in form of host:port for TCP/IP connections
and /path/to/sock for UNIX Domain Sockets or any other supported format. See \fBroartips\fR(7)
for a full list.
This is the same as the \fB--server\fR option.

.SH "BUGS"
There are a lot of bugs...

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBroarctl\fR(1),
\fBroarvorbis\fR(1),
\fBroarfish\fR(1),
\fBroartestclients\fR(1),
\fBroartips\fR(7),
\fBlibroar\fR(7),
\fBRoarAudio\fR(7).

.SH "HISTORY"

For history information see \fBRoarAudio\fR(7).

.\" ll
