.\" roard.1:

.TH "roarbaseclients" "1" "July 2008" "RoarAudio" "System Manager's Manual: roard"

.SH NAME

roarcat, roarmon, roarfilt \- RoarAudio sound server base clients

.SH SYNOPSIS

roarcat [OPTIONS]... [FILE]

roarmon [OPTIONS]...

roarfilt [OPTIONS]...

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This are some basic clients for RoarAuido. Some more complex are listen in the \fbSEE ALSO\fR block.
For controlling \fBroard\fR take a look at \fBroarctl\fR(1). For a simple Ogg Vorbis player
take a look at \fBroarvorbis\fR(1) (ogg123 supportes RoarAudio via libao plugin).

.TP
\fBroarcat\fR
Sends raw PCM audio data from a file or stdin (pipe) to the sound server.

.TP
\fBroarmon\fR
Gets a copy of the audio data the server sends to the soundcard. This is usefull for streaming
to a server like \fBicecast2\fR(1).

.TP
\fBroarfilt\fR
This filters the audio data before they are send to the soundcard.

.SH "GENERAL OPTIONS"
\fBNOTE: This list is incomplete!\fR

.TP
\fB--help\fR
Print some help text.

.SH "AUDIO OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB--rate RATE\fR, \fB-R RATE\fR
Set server sample rate.

.TP
\fB--bits BITS\fR, \fB-B BITS\fR
Set server bits.

.TP
\fB--chans CHANNELS\fR, \fB-C CHANNELS\fR
Set server channels.

.SH "NETWORK OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB--server SERVER\fR
The server to connect to.

.SH "ROARFILT SPECIFIC OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB--half\fR
Half the volume.

.TP
\fB--double\fR
Double the volume.

.TP
\fB--amp n\fR
Amplify volume by n.

.TP
\fB--mul n\fR

.TP
\fB--div n\fR

.TP
\fB--log n\fR
Does a simple 'gamma correction'.
This is done by:
 sample = 2^(bits-1) * log(1 + (n - 1)*sample/2^(bits-1)) / log(n).

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
Bellow only the basic environment varibales are listend.
For a complete list see \fBlibroar\fR(7).

.TP
\fBHOME\fR
The users home directory.

.TP
\fBROAR_SERVER\fR
The address of the listening server. This may be in form of host:port for TCP/IP connections
and /path/to/sock for UNIX Domain Sockets or any other supported format. See \fBroartips\fR(7)
for a full list.
This is the same as the \fB--server\fR option.

.SH "BUGS"
There are a lot of bugs...

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBroarctl\fR(1),
\fBroarvorbis\fR(1),
\fBroarfish\fR(1),
\fBroartestclients\fR(1),
\fBroartips\fR(7),
\fBlibroar\fR(7),
\fBRoarAudio\fR(7).

.SH "HISTORY"

For history information see \fBRoarAudio\fR(7).

.\" ll
